when he considered a high cost of
renovations architectural moldings are
an easy way to create classic designs
without massive outlay by adding molding
and coving along the ceiling or a
picture or dado rail you can transform a
dull room into something more palatial
decorative moldings can be made of solid
wood medium density fiberboard or
jointed Punnett these planks of white
pine are on their way to become jointed
molding fresh out of the kiln dryer a
hydrometer measures the humidity in each
plank to ensure the wood is dry enough
to cut cleanly a worker directs a laser
to read the dimensions of each and every
plank the laser transmits that
information to a computer which guides
our plane further up the line to shave
the plank to the required width and to
square it off this process transforms
the plank into a block the blocks now
enter a high-tech piece of equipment
that identifies defects for removal as
each block enters the machine a scanner
records all its features it sends that
information to a computer which
calculates a cutting point
guided by the computer a saw chops out
any knots or poor quality wood
the machines kickers boot the cut-offs
from the conveyor the blocks meanwhile
continue on running against razor sharp
rotating heads that carve joints into
the ends the next station coats the
joints with industrial-strength
carpenters glue the conveyor now picks
up speed and butts the blocks together
with high pressure the joints lock
together in a tight fit
when the glue dries the joint strengthen
the jointed blocks are connected in a
continuous unit a sore now cuts it into
standard molding lengths these lengths
are known as jointed blanks because
they've not yet been shaped a saw now
cuts the blanks lengthwise to the
thickness of the specific molding
they're producing the final step to
profile the blanks a machine called a
molder uses rotating steel knives to
carve the wood to the required shape
there's a different knife for each style
of molding the molder transforms the
blanks into mouldings at a rate of
thirty meters per minute
moldings made of pine or medium-density
fibreboard are the least expensive to
buy but you can't stain them as you can
mouldings made of solid wood either way
a spot of DIY could make all the
difference